hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Al Morris the CEO and founder of
coin Network coin network is on a
mission to produce better decentralized
applications and make it easier for
developers and community members to
participate at every level the network
is designed to abstract incentives from
intermediaries by leveraging open source
and distributed architecture to build a
truly open internet in this conversation
Al and I talk about empowering users by
giving them control over their data
building a decentralized internet
rewarding users for contributing
resources the various iterations of the
coin Network interesting use case cases
upcoming releases and so much more just
a reminder nothing said on this podcast
is a solicitation to buy or sell any
tokens that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Al and I hope you
enjoy the conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone what's going on today we
are joined with Al Morris the founder
and CEO at POI Network coin Network aims
to democratize the Internet by rewarding
users for giving their attention to apps
and Pages how you doing today Al doing
great thanks for having me on the show
yeah I'm really excited uh but before we
jump into anything can we get an update
on the koi plant status oh the koi plant
is doing great his name is Oliver uh
we're on day 20 30 now I guess it was 29
yesterday we took a little leaf off of a
pathos plant and put it in soil and it's
been like crazy he's got four leaves
going now and we're hoping we'll have a
you know proper plan growing by uh
mid-summer I think and how big is are
those plants expected to get pathos oh
um my last pathos that I had in Chicago
was probably about 20 feet long so it'll
grow pretty big awesome really cool so
before we jump into kind of koi and what
inspired you I want to start it your
Genesis where did you study at
University and what made you want to
study mechanical engineering yes I grew
up in rural Canada uh not that real but
a city called Halifax out on the east
coast and originally I was going to be a
pro snowboard that was definitely the
plan in high school I had a pretty bad
Wipeout while I was training uh on the
Canada Games team and I had like a bad
knee injury and so I was laid up for a
while watching like TV and playing cards
with my grandma and watched Iron Man I
was like wow you know if I can't be a
Personnel border that looks like it
would be fun
um so I got into robotics actually uh
mechanical engineering is kind of one of
the disciplines you could come into it
from I spent a lot of time building
robots out of different parts Lego
anything you should imagine I used to do
these design competitions where he'd go
in and they had basically bins of parts
and you had a budget that you could buy
parts from the shop and then you'd have
to solve some kind of problem like build
a machine that will lift itself out of a
small box when it lands on Mars and then
start taking soil samples and putting
them into the box I think we built that
one out of toothpicks and small motors
and a battery in about like three hours
which was pretty wild I think it had a
couple elastic bands in there to create
tension and a little robotic arm there
we go I got out of the school doing that
and it was uh it was really fun working
in the robotics industry but there was a
lot of like a lot of what I did was in
Industrial Systems so I was in factories
and automating jobs
um we were working with like AI systems
that could kind of replicate a human
person on an assembly line and that
started to feel kind of soulless after a
while so I started looking for other
ways to kind of make a bigger impact I
got interested in the web I've been
writing a lot of software in the
robotics World obviously and got
interested in the web and started
looking at that and got into uh digital
marketing for a while worked for a
pretty large affiliate marketing Network
called share sale and while I was
working there I started feeling like the
kind of internet was not really what I
thought it was at the beginning like we
were working on tracking pixels and like
you're tracking people's behavior and
that kind of thing and that's like a
it's a pretty creepy world when you get
really deep into it you realize how much
data you're giving off as you use the
internet so I got really interested in
privacy Solutions found Brave found the
kind of ethereum ecosystem which is just
emerging at the time this is like 2016
2015. and got very very excited about
that so I got into education I started
working with a YouTube channel called
blockchain.wgf which I think is still
there if you want to watch the old
videos and then we eventually end up
turning that into uh more of a formal
non-profit and started teaching classes
in Chicago so uh one of the early
ethereum co-founders Taylor gearing took
us Holly and uh mentored us and gave us
a building to work at it because he had
some commercial real estate he wasn't
using and we got to run the courses and
teach people in person we had a space
where people could just walk in off the
street and worry about Bitcoin and using
ATM and we talked code boot camps as
well so a lot of what we built it boy is
kind of in response to some of the
problems that I saw in terms of actually
building the decentralized internet
um so we've been trying to make that a
lot easier awesome and that group of
individuals you just spoke about was
that the blockchain Institute of Chicago
yeah Washington Institute Chicago cool
sounds very appreciate when you put it
that way yeah it's it's a really uh
official sounding name so you were
saying before we hopped on the call that
you're not in Chicago right now but I am
curious to hear what was sort of the
vibe of blockchain crypto doe in Chicago
in 2017 and how has that Vibe kind of
changed or shifted or grown over the
years through today oh wow big question
so Chicago uh the background of the city
is that it's like heavily in the
Commodities trade it sits at the head of
a river and so a lot of the Commodities
that were sold from the U.S went into
boats in Chicago and then went down the
St Lawrence and out into the Atlantic
and so as a result the Commodities
exchange there grew up and that actually
ended up leading to a lot of the
development of the early like the very
very early U.S financial sector before
New York was like as big of a picture so
Chicago is a really long history in
Commodities which is interesting because
early on most tokens were kind of
considered Commodities so like uh
Bitcoin or ethereum at the beginning
were thought of more like raw Goods like
foreign or soy or something like that
and so the Chicago Commodities Traders
got really into it and the financial
industry there just took off kind of
growing around this and there's a ton of
the early Bitcoin exchanges a lot of the
ATM chains things like battery base
there and so we were all just like going
to these meetups every week it was like
at least one meet up a week there was
usually a Bitcoin meet up and an
ethereum meet up that you go to every
week so Maxis had their camps and there
were a few other kind of web 3 meetups
and people that were just hacking and I
was probably going to at least one event
every night in 2017. trying to keep up
with what was going on and we'd like
read white papers together we'd catch up
on like what was going on in the VIPs
and just everybody was just trying to
share knowledge because there wasn't a
place that you could learn it back then
you had to learn it on your own you go
read GitHub commits and try to figure it
out and were you noticing that attendees
were kind of caught up in the Ico Buzz
or were you kind of working alongside
fellow Builders
um so the tricky thing then was that you
weren't really investing in icos you
were investing in products right um so
some people definitely did get caught up
in like the retail Trader thing where
they were just dumping money into some
Ico hoping it would go up but the
smarter investors wanted to know what
the technical analysis looked like to
see if it would be feasible that's where
I had a bit of an edge because I'd been
doing a lot of different types of
technology for a long time and so I
could put together the pieces and read a
lot of the white papers I probably read
just about everyone paper that came out
in 2017. maybe up until 2020 like at
least all the big ones and that was like
that was the beginning of that because
you start seeing how people are putting
the pieces together and so it was like
we were all learning from each other you
know a new Ico would come up and said
they were going to do something in a
particular way or there'd be some new
proof invented and when I say invented
like a white paper described approved
format that could exist and then people
started building it and then you'd see a
like a myriad of spin-offs of the same
idea and that's that's really how we got
to where we are today you know like even
the concept of stake back then was like
kind of it was very taboo you know like
the Bitcoin audience would immediately
you if you said proof of stake and that
mistake is everything you know and so
it's changed a lot yeah I got into the
crypto space in 2017 and I have a folder
from back then with dozens and dozens of
white papers so I can definitely relate
digging into any and every white paper I
could get my hands on for a technology
that sounded interesting when was the
first time you heard about Bitcoin or
ethereum was it was it the 2016-17 era
was it when you were in school studying
robotics can you kind of give a little
bit of a timeline of of the first time
you came across this technology yeah I
mean Bitcoin like 2010 2011 when I was
in high school trying to be a pro
snowboarder I remember people talking
about Bitcoin and I always thought they
were crazy and then a little while later
I remember when I was in engineering
school that there were some people that
were pretty into it they were doing
Mining and stuff and they seemed like
smart people so I like understood that
it was something interesting but I
wasn't that excited about it yet it was
really the the idea of a world computer
with ethereum that kind of caught my eye
that's kind of what drew me into space I
was trying to build a like a peer review
for the internet at the time to try and
fight like not just misinformation like
the kind of like political speak that we
hear but more like
um when you have affiliate marketing
it's like a you know a blog or something
like that that's more or less trying to
get people to click on a link or buy
something with a coupon and those kinds
of sites can actually spread a lot of
misinformation as well and so we ended
up with this kind of like this world
where the internet was how we got all
our information but a lot of it was
trying to sell something and I was
trying to fight that and then I saw this
world computer idea made a lot of sense
to have an unbiased information system I
think that was the first time that the
crypto stuff really clicked for me I've
been into it for a little while before
that that was like kind of mid early
2016 when I started actually looking at
that side of it so thank you vitalik I
guess who's listening to this that's
super cool kind of a tangent do you know
of any pro athletes uh maybe in the
extreme sports realm because I'm really
into rock climbing myself and sometimes
I do a little bit of snowboarding in the
winter but here in Colorado we can the
sun is out for 300 days a year and it's
not as cold during the winter as some
people would think so you can kind of
climb all year round are you aware of
any kind of like extreme athletes that
are propagating ethereum Bitcoin other
kind of cryptocurrencies or
decentralized networks I've definitely
seen some of them uh I know uh Moxie
Marlins bikes like an international
sailor and he's the guy that like
basically set up signal it's been a big
crypto advocate for a really long time
he had an idea called the decentralized
library at one point which I think is
kind of where the Nexus of these things
meet it's like the individualism and
autonomy of the industry tree but no to
be honest actually most of the people
that I know in like snowboarding or who
spend a lot of time in mountains they
tend to not really care what about
what's happening on the internet they're
also angry about the financial system
and the way that the internet's
controlling people's lives but I don't
think they care enough to fix it because
they're having fun in the mountains
yeah totally something that you said
kind of really resonates with me I had a
previous career working for multiple
governments as an urban planner before I
got into the space in 2017 and I noticed
how rampant misinformation was and not
only that there was a ton of
misinformation but people were actively
pushing it forward and back in 2017 the
big project was Neo you know it was
gonna overtake ethereum and so I kind of
fell down the rabbit hole and I started
covering that project and I've been
covering it in an objective fact-based
non-sensational manner basically since
2018 just to provide content for real
information and provide sources for
quotes and not just say like
ex-government is partnering with why
project and hoping that the price of the
token moons so that really resonates
with me something that I also kind of
get a sense from you is that there's
this larger kind of philosophy that
drives you so why is it important for
you for us for people that are building
in web3 today to break up centralized
data networks and online platforms well
I think the analogy of it is to think of
data centers more like bookshelves I
guess as like a very very large library
right so the internet is an enormous
Library where there's all these
different branches that own data centers
and you would think that if you're using
facebook.com or one of these services
that the information that you're putting
in those systems be it your family's
Memoirs your photos or your political
views or you know just whatever you
happen to be saying you'd think that
that would be stored for you right but
it's really not it's it's stored for the
profitability of those Enterprises and
if there's any prices ever failed that
information disappears and it probably
disappears quite quickly there's a
significant risk that over the next you
know 20 to 30 years and actually you
know what we've already seen this with
small radio broadcasters and small
newspapers they get gobbled up by some
conglomerate and someone decides that
you know the old post from five years
ago or 20 years ago don't really matter
that much anymore or that you know maybe
some of the images just don't get
transferred over when they do the
database migration and a lot of that
stuff can just disappear though and
digital is very different from having an
actual physical library because you
don't ever have a copy and there's no
copy left once the thing gets moved it's
not like you have to burn the book but
the database just gets turned off or the
server gets unplugged and then it's gone
forever it requires like significant
electrical input to keep these things
alive for the long term and that's uh
that can be a big problem it is going to
be a big problem I think it's probably
one of the most dangerous things that
could happen we could lose our track of
History absolutely and Beyond like
losing track of History what about these
centralized databases that that own
these pieces of content these libraries
what's the philosophy of earning
attention getting people to read
information from this database from this
set of tools and information contained
within a library what's kind of the
driving factor for entities and
institutions that own this content how
do they go about earning attention and
are they thinking of earning attention
in a way that benefits the user or is it
more for the bottom line for them great
question it's gonna sound a little bit
corny but attention is the currency of
love right so if you really are
passionate about something or if it
engages you deeply or you respected a
lot you will give it your attention and
that can be a person it can be a
platform it can be a movement it could
be a revolution but that's what kind of
defines how humans spend their time we
only have so many minutes in a day and
the amount of things that we pay
attention to is limited and so what we
try to do like I think most of your
asking is like why is Floyd giving out
their free tokens from mentioned like it
sounds silly but it's just a really bad
way to distribute tokens what we wanted
to do is to build a fully democratic
system so if you have a bunch of people
looking at your content and those people
have a decent reputation in the network
and we we kind of know like they can be
pseudonymous as well they don't have to
actually tell us who they are but if
that user is looking at you then that
means that you have some value to them
because they're spending time to look at
you and I think this is a really good
way of looking at like the economics of
content in general or the economics
especially of like scientific uh
research or things that are maybe like
journalistic content it's really hard to
put economic value on those usually and
usually we have like the kind of the
tragedy of the comments we try to
support those as a community Through
like Democratic processes and our
governments maybe give grants to those
kinds of people to kind of try to
preserve that stuff or we have like the
Library of Congress where we store a lot
of it but at the end of the day there
needs to be a free market compatible
version and that's that's sort of where
we've been trying to work and before we
kind of delve further into what koi is
and and how you're building this free
market for individuals to be rewarded
for giving their attention towards
whatever sort of content they're
consuming or reading or listening to or
watching
um I just want to ask you a very high
level philosophical question what's the
Tipping Point what's the point in which
users are going to opt in to these
decentralized networks versus a web 2
competitor like Facebook for instance my
mom can just go on Facebook and for her
she might not necessarily grok a lot of
these philosophical kind of concerns
that you're working day in and day out
to improve make better so what does that
look like how when will Society just opt
in to something like a decentralized
network like koi versus just going
straight to Facebook or any other kind
of like catch-all web 2 uh centralized
platform so David walksman
um kind of head and founder of walksman
PR which is like probably one of the
biggest PR agencies in crypto they
handled filecoin a lot of other big icos
they've managed a lot of the large
foundations kind of Correspondence for a
long time his is saying that it has to
be better than three and so what that
means is not you know not just like you
know maybe better than free would mean I
have to pay you to look at my thing
right because I could charge you a lot
of money and that would be one thing or
I can make it free and that's easier or
I could pay but it's not really about
just paying people that was kind of the
original version that was happening a
lot in 2017 and I don't know if that
actually really scales well it ends up
being very inflationary and you don't
like you end up getting paid in
something that eventually becomes
worthless so what we see at quiz is kind
of like and I keep saying koi but like
really that's where a lot of our thought
happens like we've kind of created this
team of people that spent a lot of time
thinking about these things so I'm not
trying to Shield the product but mostly
like what we see though is like these
three verticals one of them is access
which is like number one it has to be as
easy as using the traditional systems
right another one is like equity and not
not equality right like there's still
going to be people who have a larger
stake in the system or have contributed
more and they're going to get more
rewards but you need to give people the
ability to earn their stake in the
system and to have like that reputation
to gross which is kind of the third one
it's like the social reputation that you
build and I guess like the final one
that I think is definitely starting to
drive people lately especially with all
the Twitter file stuff coming out and
other things like that it's like this
feeling of privacy and being able to
actually have like not only do I want to
keep my messages private but I also want
to be able to communicate with people
directly I want to make sure that I'm
like I'm able to make sure that my
system works the way that I expected to
so I have private service from the
network and I think that's something
that web3 can enable in a way that no
centralized company ever can because
they're always going to act as a
middleman and if you're acting as a
middleman you end up having to
disintermediate that attention that love
right the connection that you have with
the other person that goes through the
social network or through the business
platform or whatever it is that you're
using there's a deep connection there
and those social connections will build
everything and when you disintermediate
that you actually create more value from
that social connection you can see
putting more on the table very
interesting and shout out to Waxman for
connecting us without them we wouldn't
have been able to have this awesome
conversation so really appreciative of
that now when someone might come across
koi for the first time they'll see that
there's a token and they might just
think that koi is a blockchain or some
sort of blockchain related project but
from the surface level it seems like
there's so much more than just a simple
blockchain integration so maybe from
kind of like a high level what type of
network is Koi Koi is a compute sharing
Marketplace and attention order so what
that means is you can use POI to track
attention the same way that Google or
Facebook or someone like that does with
tracking pixels but you can do so in an
anonymous or at least pseudonymous and
fairly private way and you can on top of
that then use the reputation that you
built from that attention Network to
enable computer and so it used to be
possible to be part of study at home
before holding at home in fact you can
still join those networks they're not as
popular anymore but they did large data
science research where you use people's
home computers to do all kinds of things
and so what we're trying to enable is
not only the kind of compassionate side
of it rewarding retention of giving
people that ability to build social
trust but also to then provide an entire
Suite of tools so that you can build an
entirely new internet on top of people's
home computers so what that means is if
you and I want to start a social network
and we get a bunch of our friends
together why do we need to have a data
center like we probably don't we can
probably pool the resources necessary
and trust each other and so that's where
this reputation thing comes in and it
allows you to basically knit together a
group of consumer Hardware into a
hosting Network and by doing that you
also remove the need for this middleman
that pays for all of the hosting costs
and then you don't really need ads as
much you don't need to invade people's
privacy as much and it kind of switches
the economics upside down yeah that's
really interesting so one of the use
cases for koi could be replacing kind of
the current model of Twitter that we see
today with a decentralized Twitter but
something that I keep coming back back
to and I keep thinking about is Twitter
is massive hundreds of million people of
millions of people across the world use
Twitter and there's got to be a lot of
data that is stored on those servers so
how large does the coin Network need to
get when we're replacing servers with
personal computers and other types of
nodes how large does the network need to
become so that it is as fast and as
efficient well as if as efficient as
Twitter used to be before it was taken
over by somebody else how large does
coin Network need to become so that
Twitter can run as efficiently and
smoothly as a decentralized application
so this is a question that we get a lot
actually and it's kind of I think it's a
big misconception Twitter doesn't need
to have a lot of data center space
because there's a lot of data well I
mean they do but mostly they have a lot
of data center space because they're
running a lot of secondary profit driven
services so running an ad Network on top
of a system like that costs them but you
can have that as a separate system that
also pays its own bills what you really
look at if you're building a
decentralized network is how do you
reward the individual for contributing
the resources necessary to their own
participation and so if a large
publisher like say the New York Times
wants to run its account it can host all
of its own content and it can pay other
people to host its content and it can
make sure that that's available but if
you're just an average person and you
just want to share your photos or a
couple tweets with a couple friends that
doesn't need to go as far and so you can
come up with these really interesting
systems where like really popular
content gets cached a lot across a lot
of devices but if I'm just sending you a
photo it goes from my device to your
device this is what we kind of call Edge
networking or like more localized
systems very cool and is koi currently
right now on is it like a mainnet
standard are you still building in a
test net sort of environment how far
along in production do you feel the
network is right now so we're on version
three of the entire system we've had two
separate architectures that we did
before this one and now we're on the
best one that we built so far this is
the one that's probably going to go to
mainnet we're pretty confident at this
point that we've worked out all the
Kinks since it's entirely scalable what
we have as part of that is we use
decentralized storage for the vast
majority of the information so when you
store something onto a blockchain the
reason that it's really expensive to put
something on ethereum is because then
all of these ethereum computers have to
store a copy of that and that brings
your unit economics up significantly
compared to just you know storing the
file on a dozen different computers
around the world using ipfs and you know
imagine there's probably thousands of
ethereum nodes and each one of them has
a lot of compute costs architecture
costs so there's just there's all this
Hardware that's there and as soon as you
put something on ethereum they all have
to have a copy of it um charity is going
to fix that a little bit and E2 will
continue to iterate on it but
decentralized storage is already
available so we use that for almost
everything and then what we do on top of
that is we have these coin notes which
are people's home computers and they run
tasks and so task coordinates storage
basically to make sure that you know you
can go fetch information on the internet
put it into the centralized storage you
can accept the file upload from the user
and hold that you can put that on the
file coin to get an insurance policy and
make sure backed up but the core of this
system is these coin notes that sort of
coordinate all that stuff and then on
top of that uh we kind of ran into some
problems with transaction throughput by
using other people's networks and so
what we did was we built a fork of
Solana that just manages these task Maps
which we call the settlement layer so it
basically only acts as a way of these
tasks coordinating payments between each
other and keeping each other accountable
and there's a very small amount of data
that goes into that to reference the
storage layer um so what it does is it
opens up the possibilities significantly
and you can have you could have
terabytes of data going into the storage
layer every hour and then only like one
tiny hash that gets logged into K2 to
verify it all as long as that storage
layer is backed up somewhere and it's
full of a bunch of signatures that
represent who's actually creating the
data all of these task nodes can go
compare resources and check each other's
work and make sure that everything's
being done properly and if one of them
does something wrong then they get the
collateral slash and the network can
roll back to the previous day pretty
gracefully there's a lot if I want to
unpack right there so I guess we'll just
start with task nodes so to become a
task node do do I have to stake a
certain amount of koi and you mentioned
slashing as well so there's an economic
incentive to ensure that I'm operating
properly so that the network basically
so that I can be a fair and honest
participant in the network so can you
share a little bit more about what it
takes to become a task node what the
slashing entails and anything else
surrounding the economic model for a
test node to serve as a good actor yeah
so this is one of the big benefits
actually you don't necessarily have to
stick tokens to run tasks so you can
start with nothing and you can still
earn tokens same way that Bitcoin works
right like if you have a node you can
make tokens the thing that's interesting
is each task is separate and has its own
incentive model and some tasks are
designed for like big beefy machines
that can do Graphics processing and some
tasks can run on a personal computer
we're even trying to get them the wrong
quotes because a lot of the stuff that
Google does like indexing websites or
like even bridging blockchains a lot of
that's actually not that data intensive
and you can do part of the job like
going and matching information on like
mobile phone and then return that
information over someone's home computer
that does a bit more and then pass that
off to a really beefy computer somewhere
that does the last bit and so that
process of kind of breaking down these
tasks into all these different incentive
models means that somebody can come in
with no tokens start running a task that
does something like web scraping or
reading from a bridge maybe it makes
them set up a Twitter API key so they
can get some information from that
Network and anchor and Oracle that task
might not require anything maybe it just
has some other prerequisite like you
have to have an ethereum key that has
this many tokens or you have to have a
web API key for Twitter whatever it is
then you make a couple tokens and now
you can access higher and higher tiers
and actually thanks to our recent
partnership with IBM we're still going
to be able to allow people to actually
rent a data center node if they want to
as well but it won't be one that's
controlled by like Facebook or some
company it's one that's controlled by
the consumer community and then the
final thing on that that's really neat
is the incentives are not just in boy
tokens so koi is actually just for the
transaction processing layer that's what
you use for K2 you can make a koi task
but uses score tokens as incentives but
you can also with their next release I
believe you will be able to actually
also include any tokens you want so if
you have your own Community you can get
them to stake that token or stake in nft
and then you can reward them in your
token and the only thing that the koi
tokens really used for in that situation
is just making sure that the settlement
layer can do consensus and that the gas
fees are all paid and that kind of thing
but again those gas fees are very small
because they're just taking these
hatches from decentralized storage and
are you noticing a growth or an uptick
in the different types of users that
want to access the coin Network so you
mentioned that you're partnering with
IBM so presumably you're starting to
talk with Partners entities what have
you that are looking to utilize this
network but also are storing larger
amounts of data and have larger data
requirements what are some of the
examples of kind of like the growing
size of entities that need an IBM level
server so it's let's look at what the
the end users need like we think of that
kind of like being Uber driver so if you
need an XL car maybe Uber will lease you
one that's kind of how we try to model
it deploys Uber in this example you know
we're just kind of getting the tasks out
there that people can do and then trying
to help them get the hardware they need
the interesting thing though is as we've
brought this open the last like two
months we've finally released all of the
tech docs we've got everything up to
speed up the dock portal you can now
basically create anything that you could
on the traditional internet using point
and so we've been taking that around to
a lot of decentralized projects that
have been trying to scale up on other
networks and they're they're seeing that
the efficiency of using this system is a
lot higher so we've got everything from
like Omni bridges that connect multiple
blockchains together just search engines
social networks we've got a podcast
Network that we're in the process of
onboarding a lot of these different
toolings that we've built can be applied
to almost any type of web product and
you can take a traditional company
that's got their backend written in like
JavaScript or fetch script and you can
import that right over into boy very
quickly and it's just a matter of adding
those incentives on top of it so it's
become a very fast process so actually
we uh we just released it about two
months ago even got 1300 projects in the
pipeline we're trying to get an
accelerator program together for them
where we'll give them mentorship
connected with the right people so they
can start to build their business model
and then help them actually build all
the tech so we're actually also we're
hiring Deborah people as well at the
moment so we can kind of accelerate that
process and make it easier for people to
use the system super cool it sounds like
you're starting to rapidly see uh demand
which is always refreshing to hear and
current kind of like negative macro
Market environments but I always think
that this is the best time for biddlers
to Biddle something that I keep coming
to but I can't quite answer yes or no
because I myself am not a developer I
just write about the cool work that
developers do but whenever I'm reading
through koi and watching your interviews
and just kind of like digging in deeper
for some reason I keep getting this
allusion to infuria but I also realize
that there's it seems like there's a lot
more that koi is offering than inferior
so why am I thinking this are there
similarities and differences between
what the two services are going to offer
yes there's some similarities for sure
uh what if you're at us is pull data
from ethereum nodes and then uh provide
you with kind of RPC endpoints that you
can use so every time that you send a
transaction metamask or check your
balance it's going period period to grab
that information from ethereum or send a
transaction out to a period or to
polygon or any of these other networks
the thing that inferior is doing there
is basically what we call an oracle so
they're in the middle and they're
checking one thing and giving you some
information in other cases you might
want to get information from the
traditional internet like some pricing
data for a default feed and you can do
that with chain link but those are both
bespoke networks that do specifically
those things and early on in the system
like I was talking earlier about the
2017 thing back then it was really hard
to build this stuff and so they built a
lot of this stuff as bespoke code that
did one thing uh what koi does is it
makes it possible to build most of those
types of applications using a
standardized format and so that's what
we call gradual consensus we've got this
whole it's all on our docsport obviously
but it's a way of approaching building
these kinds of blockchain verticals that
makes it very standardized and it's also
all in JavaScript which makes it a lot
more accessible and you can kind of
build your own thing instead of having
to go to one of the suppliers and ask
them to build
and I understand that gradual consensus
is probably a whole talk in and of
itself but can you elaborate on this
concept of gradual consensus how long
does the process take and why sure um so
very quickly it takes as long as you
wanted to and it depends on how you want
to audit things and what the incentives
are so it's very very open-ended the the
slightly longer answer is that the way
that we've designed this is to allow the
task Creator to set up the incentives
and audits properly for their use case
and so you basically have a set of
different timers that you can set up and
then you have to supply a task function
an audit function and a distribution
function so the task function runs first
that's what the nodes are running all
the time to provide your service and
that has in it almost no real there's no
cryptography really it's it maybe
generates a couple proofs and brosman
ibfs but it doesn't do a lot with that
and then at the end of the task period
which we call a round which is set by
the task grader against your round could
be an hour it could be in a minute it
could be 20 minutes it can be whatever
time you want that time is the period
that we're watching and if you do that
properly then you'll have some proofs
after that and your task will
automatically submit those proofs for
review and the rest of the nodes look
and basically what that means is hey
I've done my job I'm going to stick my
hand to the cookie jar and ask for a
cookie and you have to keep your hand in
there and you're waiting and waiting and
seeing if the other nodes are going to
call you out on it and if nobody calls
you out on it nobody says that you
didn't need me wrong which again they do
this all automatically using your audit
function if they don't say you did
anything wrong then you get to take the
cookie and that happens in the
distribution function so the cool thing
about this is that you can customize the
distributions and you can customize the
Audits and you can customize some tasks
and they all work together very
seamlessly and we realized over time
that the incentive models that are
available for web hosting are actually
pretty they're pretty constrained so
there's only so many different types of
things you can get a computer to do that
you can create an incentive in an audit
board it's what we're hoping to do
within the next year or service to be
able to provide templates for most of
those applications so that when somebody
comes to us and they say I want to build
a webscraper like Google we can tell
them how to do that or if they come to
us and they say I want to build a bridge
between blockchains we've got a solution
to that and they're actually quickly
coming together with a lot of the people
in the ecosystem to make these standards
because it also makes the product more
trustworthy and so you can actually kind
of work in the open and build open
source projects that have all of these
attributes at full decentralization
without kind of the hurdles of trying to
go to uh somebody who acts like kind of
a middleman and a Solutions architect
for you and we'd really hope to get to
the point where this is like a drag and
drop into it it's like I want to make a
web scraper that watches this website
and sends me an alert and then posts it
into my ethereum contract adminson nft
and that should actually be pretty easy
to do in a completely automated way
without you having to run the server
yourself that's super cool hearing kind
of the seeds for this composability
that's going to go beyond just kind of
blockchain sdks or tools or anything
like that that koi is really looking to
towards providing these plug-and-play
solutions for services Beyond just
blockchain networks but also the
internet in general earlier in our
conversation you had mentioned that the
network is essentially a fork of Solana
so I'm a little bit curious to hear why
you dug into that Tech and why you
forked that that stack particularly
because it sounds like maybe your
Awakening was seeing all the different
things that ethereum could do so why did
you look Beyond forking ethereum and why
did you look at other networks so
there's a few different things that
happened here the first thing that we
notice is ethereum is extraordinarily
good for assets but it doesn't have a
really strong time stamp process and so
what Salon has created is a way of
having uh through history a actual time
stamp for every interval in the system
and we found that we can map those
pretty well to real world time so like
you can actually create a number of
seconds per slot in the salon
architecture and that allows us to do
all of this timing in gradual consensus
because the thing about gradual
consensus is and the reason that we call
it gradual it is this period where
you're doing the work of the first part
getting the word checked and then you
get a reward and so it's gradual because
it takes three periods to do this and
you overlap them so while you're getting
checked you're also doing the work for
the next round and then whether you're
getting your reward you're also doing
the work for the next two or two rounds
later
um and so there's this layering system
and that really depends on having really
good timers the other thing that we
really liked about Solana though is that
you can also burn some block space when
you need to and so we back up our entire
system to rpfs and file and so that
means that at the core our actual
blockchain notes can be very very
efficient that being said we don't use
them for smart contracts and so if you
wanted to have a smart contract in the
system you actually still use evm for
most of those kinds of things for your
nfts for token and J A lot of that stuff
can happen on the evm world and really
the only reason that you're using this
K2 layer that we created the Solana
order is to wrap tokens in so that you
can use them as incentives and quote
tasks so it's very very bespoke for that
type of application and the last part of
it is that it's very very fast for
accepting our personal traffic because
this massive amount of data that's
coming in about the attention economy
has to also go into this blockchain and
get adjudicated very quickly and so most
of the data lives on ipfs again but then
there's still this point where there's
all these nodes pinging data in at the
same time and we didn't really want to
get bogged down at the ebm architecture
for that absolutely and so now we're
talking about nfts we're talking about
evm compatibility we're also talking
about K2 which uses a different
architecture so in order to use the coin
Network there needs to be some sort of
multi-chain wallet so you guys created
Finney is Finney just kind of a
catch-all for the current networks that
koi supports is there the ability to add
support for other networks in the future
maybe you could just share a little bit
about what Finney is how it's
multi-chain approach works with the coin
Network and maybe what the future holds
in store for the wallet yeah for sure so
uh the idea with Finney was that we
needed a testing ground for a lot of the
productivities that we have like we
wanted to make drag and drop nfts so we
built a wallet that could drag and drop
nfts and make our repentance uh we're
drag and drop a file and make an argue
that too and then we started working
with ethereum to bridge those nfgs over
openc so we added a functionality in
there so you can one click Bridge them
into openc and then as we started doing
that kind of stuff we started working on
the Solana fork and you know naturally
we then had to have a Solana wallet so
we added that in there but the real
benefit of this is that for a koi user
or a node operator I guess we should
call them the node operator might need
to be holding tokens in a bunch of
different chains if they're running
running one of these tasks and they
might need a bunch of different wallets
to do that with so with Finney it gives
you a really seamless integration so
that you can take those keys that you
have in Vinnie that you've created
funded given the proper nft whatever it
is that you need to be part of our task
group and you can Port that key right
over to your desktop mode on your
computer and then now you've got this
full Suite of tools that's very
standardized and we're not worried about
trying to get people to follow a bunch
of different tutorials for how to do
those things in each different wallet
we've just got it all in one place yeah
that's really cool and you mentioned
nfts so is that kind of the Focus right
now for the support that koi wants to
offer our nfts kind of the main area of
concern right now because from basically
from my perspective when I was digging
into to koi it seemed like the network
is currently oriented toward the content
creator space as a decentralized media
Network so there has got to be all sorts
of different ways in which these media
entities can utilize nfts to either
provide access to a website provide
access to a subscription service to
reward users to create unique ways for
users to interact with a media entity so
is that kind of what koi is like digging
into right now is focusing on nfts or is
that a little too myopic we try to stay
away from focusing on like like a
business opportunities so to speak but
really it's more about empowering
developers empowering the kind of
community members that are using the
network or using products built on the
network and then making it really really
easy for people to think about it from
an architectural perspective and then
building a business so if you have your
own ad Network that you're building and
there's one big book on our platform
right now called Vinci's if you're
building something like that and you
wanted to issue your own token when
people watch ads you can use our
attention tracker to do that as the back
end and we take care of the attention
track employees so you don't have to
build any of that Tech and then you can
just write a quick task that kind of
handles some of the maintenance work as
an example of kind of how all these
pieces can fit together though the
narcissist Aspire is kind of a cool
thing to bring up we did this as like
sort of a it was like partially a
promotional thing it was partially like
we wanted to do a kind of a cool event
for the community and give them an nft
so they could be part of it but we ended
up doing this thing it was called the
koi garden party we got one of our
investors has a museum in decentraland
and so we had everybody join us in the
central land and we gave a big
presentation and what we did was we put
this narcissus flyer on the screen it
was the first one that we made I think I
hacked this out in like three days and
it was an nft that evolved when it got
more attention and so if you open the
page on your computer the flower would
start to open and so it started out as
this bowl and we got this gift and we
just ripped it out into like I think it
was like 280 slides and it would
progress through slides depending on how
much attention it got but it's a
narcissistic fiber it's a narcissist so
the next day it's got high standards for
itself and you have to give it more
attention to get it to open it's kind of
like a Tamagotchi but we put this we put
this thing up on the projector in
decentraland in the in the metaverse and
we got everybody to go and open it on
their computers and we watched this
thing together opening in real time and
then we gave out a bunch of the
community and I think a bunch of people
figured out how to game it and kind of
got a bunch of bots to go and like open
their narcissist-fire for them every day
I think one of the high scores on them
is like 30 000 views that it got in the
same day which is hilarious because that
definitely didn't happen but then we
started looking at things like the
better reputation tracking with our did
so that we can prevent people from
spamming the attention tracking but it
it's these kinds of things that like you
know we really did that as an artistic
thing but at its core it represents how
you can get these networks to react in
real time to people using them and so
you could use this to prioritize content
in the social media feed or to kind of
give you a better access into financial
markets by kind of actually watching
what people are looking at or you could
even create like a trading bot that
looks at what people are looking at and
then is able to start to kind of create
indexes based on what's popular and so
there's a lot of different applications
for tracking attention and then
integrating it with compute basically
yeah that's super interesting The
Narcissist flower sounds awesome and
it's a really funny story my ears perked
a little bit when you brought up did so
how do you incorporate identity into the
coin Network and also how do you kind of
battle what I view as this internal
struggle with maintaining privacy
especially on a blockchain network but
also using my wallet as a form of
identity and what are the ways in which
you guys are balancing authenticating
and verification with providing privacy
for your users yeah so did for those
that may not be up to speed we might be
listening is a personal wallet that
holds a bunch of different credentials
and you can think of this kind of like
having your passport and your driver's
license and your health card and a bunch
of other things all in one little thing
that you just tap when you go places the
difference with dids versus having that
in a traditional centralized system
though is that you can incorporate
things like ZK proofs and so if I have a
did that has a lot of reputation and has
a lot of like weight in the system I can
then delegate that to a new one that I
create for when I'm doing something that
I don't want anybody to see and that's
that has some pretty significant
advantages because it means that not
only do you have your reputation on
chain and that you can build it up as
you round but that you can build kind of
like offshoots of that reputation and no
one has to know where they come from if
it's on the blockchain and it's that
kind of conservation of mass thing that
happens with Bitcoin where we know how
many Bitcoin there are because we know
that we can't deliver create new Bitcoin
on the fly right so in the same way
reputation can be treated that way as
well so it can be treated like a like a
commoditized resource that you can trade
between your wallets and as long as you
have control of them then you're all
good to answer your question like how
does this actually work with boy and why
is it useful I mentioned the kind of
attention tracking thing um so one of
the first things that we started looking
at was how do we make the attention
track we think civil resistant right
because otherwise somebody could just go
spin up a bunch of headless browsers and
just paying the thing over and over and
over again and then now it looks like
they have the most popular thing in the
network and you're getting all the free
tokens and that's just bad because now
we're not getting more node operators
we're not building up the community the
right projects aren't getting funded
from the tokens that would be bad so the
best thing you can do reputation in that
space is just to kind of weight the
attention you can weight it based on
kind of like the global standard within
koi as a network and then when somebody
else builds their own attention token
they can add their own weightings so
their Community can get weighted
differently or if they have an nft or
maybe they have like levels in their
Community those levels can actually be
reflected and how they weight attention
and how they distribute their token to
their Community the other side of it
which is the really nerdy stuff that I
get into is in replications and so when
you have a compute process in our
compute Marketplace there's this
traditional problem of like how many
computers does it take to screw in a
light bulb and so you'd think it would
just be one right like it's like okay
well we told the computer to do it now
it's going to get done but it's actually
not that it you actually do have to get
another computer to occasionally check
that it did properly because otherwise
now the system could be taken over by
somebody who's only staking a little bit
of collateral and so the lower your
reputation is the more often someone
needs to check your work and that
actually creates a lot of waste so if
you imagine we have a million computers
if half the computers spend all their
time checking the other computer's work
then you actually only have 500 000
computers you don't have a million and
that's a problem right and so the higher
that replication factor is which in a
lot of computing scenarios it's like
three or four that actually is very
expensive and it wastes a lot of power
and it makes decentralized systems more
expensive to run than centralized
systems but if you have a really strong
reputation heuristic and you know that
someone's a good actor kind of like
again getting into an Uber if you know
that your Uber driver is safe then
you're not worried about it and you can
kind of trust that person to sort of run
autonomously because they're probably
not messing with the code and that might
be that might seem like a big assumption
but you also have to remember a lot of
these are like community members who are
running a home computer and like
realistically they might not even know
how to write code so it's very unlikely
they're going to hack the system and if
they do they will still get caught
eventually and they'll lose a much
larger proportion of their state because
their reputation was higher at the
beginning and so there's some really
neat stuff that you can do there for
contrast too like there's some um zero
knowledge proofing algorithms coming out
that are kind of supposed to be somewhat
efficient for verifying a compute occur
and in those cases a lot of the time
your replication factor is like four to
eight and so you're doing a compute
proof at the end of each line of code in
order to verify that the thing ran
properly but you're actually wasting
like seven out of eight compute Cycles
because you're not actually doing the
work with those compute Cycles you're
doing all this proofing and so if you
get reputation online for the compute
economy it actually makes things a lot
more efficient and when we're talking
about reputation you did mention that
there could be other projects that
create their own tokens so it's not just
koi that is automatically distributed
when it comes to rewarding attention so
maybe this is uh the inherent model or
maybe it's not I just want to learn a
little bit more about when koi tokens
and other tokens within the koi
ecosystem are distributed to individuals
or entities for their attention are
these tokens automatically staked on
behalf of the users when they're
distributed oh no not at all actually
it's completely opposite the tokens
usually get given out for free in koi's
cases a registration step that has to
occur so you can either register your
content up front which is a very very
tiny fee in koi tokens or you can
register it later which costs you kind
of a scaling fee depending on how many
tokens you've earned before you
registered but then once something is
registered it stays that way forever so
if you're trying to Archive like the
Library of Congress again you can put
all of that stuff onto centralized
storage you use the koi tokens to top up
the wallet and if it's registered it'll
keep generating Revenue as long as
people are looking at it so like the
Mona Lisa could literally last forever
in a digital format and you could have
um sort of an incentive pool even
potentially invested in D5 to make sure
that that actually stays stable over
time that's super cool yeah it's like
trust funds for files kind of thing
I'm trying to think of a clever way to
weave this in but I just kind of was
reminded of the proof of real traffic
model when you were talking about the
Mona Lisa example so how do you utilize
proof of real traffic to verify that it
is actual individuals that are viewing
the Mona Lisa and not just some bot that
was created like the narcissist flower
you were talking about of course yes so
that's where the reputation thing comes
in and so your your signature from your
wallet right in a traditional
cryptographic world that's how you send
a transaction that's how you authorize
like a new token when you're using any
swap those proof surreal traffic are
actually signatures wrapped with a small
proof of work and so if you have a low
reputation you have to do more group of
work which you won't notice as your
browsing it just happens in the
background or your computer but if you
try to do it with you know a million
computers it would immediately get very
expensive and so if you have a higher
reputation we don't make you do that
proof of work and you can just give us
your signatures cool kind of just want
to talk a little bit about the the
network and activity and users before we
let you go you guys launched in 2020 so
what has the growth for the network
looked like since then I mentioned
earlier that I personally think that
macro bear markets are good for building
so are you noticing that you're
onboarding kind of Builders and
developers or are you also onboarding
retail users and what has growth kind of
looked like since your launch yeah I
mean since the bear Market um everyone's
answering their phones a lot more
because we're not all like awkward who's
having parties so that's been really
good actually our developer uptick's
been significant I think also the new
version that we released recently has
helped a lot with that we went through a
few different phases right so we started
out building a completely independent
Network on day one uh which was
initially just designed to do web
scraping and sort of archive the web and
the idea was that you would pay coin ads
to go on archive pages and then the
pages they archived they would get a
split of the attention rewards that was
a very basic prototype and then we went
to our weave and we found a lot of love
in that Community because a lot of those
people were kind of thinking about the
same problems and trying to build this
kind of Perpetual Endowment for the
internet that we wanted to create and we
saw a lot of adoption there but then we
saw some scaling issues and we also saw
some issues with like some of the
content didn't need to be permanent
because you know a lot of web data
doesn't need to be permanent so we
re-architect it almost entirely over the
last year and moved towards using K2 as
our settlement layer which was
completely built by us uh I mean we
forced a lot on but we did a lot of work
on it and that took us about like eight
months to build and then it's been
online now for about six months so we've
started opening up 10 developers and
then we've also uh migrated to using
ipfs for a lot of the short-term storage
needs and now filed coins or backups
because we find better replication
factors there and so this entire
re-architecture we've actually had
people coming in at every step of the
way so a lot of our projects that were
officially with us in the are we era are
actually still working with us and we
actually have customers from way way
back when we were just a web scraping
company that are really excited to use
the node Network now that it's online
and so now we've kind of brought a lot
of these different pieces together and I
think this is probably this is probably
the year when it all starts to grow
really fast we we probably haven't been
spending any we haven't been spending
any time I should say actually on sales
or uh developer relations throughout
this entire process and so as soon as we
brought it out like about two months ago
we started reaching out to everybody and
very quickly got a lot of people on
board that's awesome and where are we
going to find these users on the koi
leaderboard what's that going to look
like yeah so there's Kodak rocks which
currently only shows the are we nfts
we're actually remodeling that right now
to support all of the content from
across the networks that includes
websites ipfs content nfts on ethereum
and if she's on polygon that he's in
Solana we're gonna put that all together
into leaderboard to show exactly how
much attention everybody's getting so
that should be coming out I think
probably later this month or around eat
Denver and then the next layer beyond
that is we're also having uh some
discussions internally about how we can
grow the ecosystem further to kind of
create a discovery portal authenticate
like a GitHub idea a Discord a Twitter
uh and you get free tokens for all the
stuff that you add to your did the next
step for that is we want to build a
discovery portal so people can try out
all kinds of different products that are
being built on coin so one example would
be like piranha so piranhas uh
p-e-e-r-a-n-h-a and they have built uh
basically a decentralized stack over
flock that provides bespoke communities
for different crypto projects and so
piranha is now adding attention tracking
to all of their posts using koi so
you'll be able to earn tokens for
answering developers questions and then
the next layer beyond that is you'll
also be able to run a node and host
piranha and so we're trying to provide a
portal where people can actually hit
those kinds of initiatives and give them
their support and then also kind of get
a piece for helping out early on because
it used to be that you could run uh you
know a home computer with a GPU and mine
ethereum you can't really do that
anymore you know it's it's not that
simple and you need a lot of tokens to
get into it and it's like very expensive
so we wanted to provide that basic entry
point and then hopefully get a ton of
people to try as many of these products
as possible because I think that
community that gets in there early and
tries all these things is going to be
probably the core of the network going
forward absolutely and for onboarding
these new developers what's that process
look like what's the available tooling
and documentation looking like oh it's
really good now actually we spent we've
Rewritten it five times I think with
three versions of the network so it's
been a bit of a mess for a while the
latest version I think is pretty now
because we've got it set up so that you
can go and deploy a koi task a sample
task onto the network in about five
minutes and then you're up and running
with a custom microservice and you can
try things out those support updates too
so if you wanted to try out deploying
the sample product you can then take the
sample task tweak it a little bit and
redeploy it and you can keep just using
the same Bounty pool so that's why we're
trying to give out some tokens from the
faucet to get people started if people
have more needs beyond that and they
want to try and use the network for some
crazy idea like let's scrape the whole
internet we'll give you a bunch of poi
tokens as a grant and you can try
actually deploying your tasks in the
network and that ends up going out to
the community members that follow you so
if somebody hears about your task it
joins in they can get a piece of that
Grant from you because you're paying
them for the compute so there's a lot of
very exciting stuff on that front and I
guess the last really exciting thing is
the founder support program this is sort
of something I really wanted to do for a
long time I mentioned that I've been
doing a lot of teaching before and ran a
lot of code boot camps so the founding
support program is where I get to go do
that again and so we've got the first
co-work going through right now it's
about 10 projects in it that are doing
everything from bridging to web scraping
to search to social like I said tons of
stuff the those are probably our top 10
that we found in the last year and then
the next cohort is going to be an open
application process from anybody who
wants to join so those applications are
open right now actually on koi.network
Founders and you can submit a little
Google form there or I think it's a
HubSpot form and we'll get you into the
program uh start kind of helping you
analyze how you want to build this
decentralized product that you're
thinking about and then give you all of
the tokens that you need to run that on
the network for the first year so cool
the grants program sounds awesome kind
of wrapping up what are the next steps
for koi that you're really excited about
as a CDN forthcoming there's definitely
some cdns coming uh we just built out
the routing framework which I'm really
excited about so that kind of acts like
a DNS layer the next thing we'd like to
do is get a cache on top of that we know
in a couple of projects that already run
caches as well like there's Saturn on
the filecoin network and there's Nissan
that provides I think both filecoin and
roof caching but the idea here is that
you can get the entire web stack
completely decentralized and mostly
running on people's home computers which
if we we can achieve that in the next
year it's going to be a pretty
spectacular decade awesome Al it was uh
super great to chat with you really
really fun to hear your kind of
philosophy in decentralized networks and
how you're you and your team are really
working to improve the internet and to
give power to the users and to allow
them to own their data and receive
rewards for ways in which they choose to
distribute their attention to projects
so if people want to keep up to date
with you or with your project what's the
best way uh well if you want to follow
Oliver the koi plant you should probably
follow me on Twitter that's uh Al
underscore koi network is also on
Twitter as Boy network and I think
probably the best place to get developer
updates and things like that is going to
be in our Discord discord.gg Coit and we
usually have some incentives and kind of
little Bounty programs for ambassadors
as well so if you're not willing to get
your hands in code you can jump in there
and maybe get some free nfts or help us
debug things or try out new products
awesome I'm looking forward to following
koi's growth as well as Oliver's growth
to 20 feet and Beyond so thank you so
much for coming to join the smart
economy podcast today Al I know you're
super busy these days so I really
appreciate your time and if I had some
reward tokens to offer you for your
attention I would totally give them to
you right now we'll have to get you set
up for that next time cheers well
hopefully we can run into each other at
East Denver and uh thanks a lot for
coming on now can't wait thanks so much
what did you think of that conversation
I thought it was great to hear about
Al's dedication to building an Internet
that is free of predatory profile
tracking and the whatever it takes to
get clicks mentality but chooses to
instead reward users for giving their
attention or what Al calls the currency
of love it was also really cool to hear
about the narcissus flower at the koi
digital garden party which grew to
demand more views before it would open
up next and how Bots were deployed to
dupe the code and it was just really
interesting to hear how coin network
will leverage code like ZK proofs to
commoditize reputation which can be
traded between wallets and help increase
user privacy on that note I want to
thank you so much for taking the time to
listen to the smart economy podcast if
you liked what you heard and want to
support the show please keep Neo news
today in mind when voting for your Neo
Council representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time